As we discover, there are unique features of intangible assets that make their behaviour different from the physical and financial assets. These are:
1. Intangibles assets mostly cannot create value for an organization in a standalone form. They need to be combined with other assets. The implication of this is 
on a firms ability to assign a value to these assets on a standalone basis.
2. These assets rarely affect financial performance directly, unlike physical or financial assets which immediately start paying off. Intangible assets 
contribute indirectly through a chain of cause and effect. For example, the investment in training a team in total quality management may decrease defects and 
therefore may give rise to customer satisfaction and heighten positive brand perception.
3. While human capital and information capital are easier to map and manage, organizational capital is much more difficult.
4. Human capital may be measured by mapping the jobs and identifying the strategic job families before focusing on getting these jobs ready for strategy 
implementation. Information capital may be evolved by identifying and creating a portfolio of transactional,analytical and transformational computer applications 
and sturdy network infrastructure that give a positive edge to the manner in which business is conducted. One such example is the complete transformation in retail 
banking with deployment of information systems that empower a customer exponentially.
5. Organizational capital is the most challenging element to map and manage because of the complete behavioural change required in conducting business at all levels. 
Changing the base culture - that involves the employees shared attitudes and beliefs, and the Climate which comprises of the shared perception of the 
organizations policies, procedures and practices, require a grip on deep-rooted, socio-psychological dynamics at work within the organization. For example, 
changing National Health Services (NHS) culture from a budget oriented operations to a dynamic business plan oriented operations that focuses on health consumer, 
is more challenging than mapping the strategic jobs and putting state-of-the-art information capital. For bringing organizational capital readiness, leadership plays 
a very important role, as do communication and knowledge-sharing.
6. Once these intangible assets are brought in state of strategic readiness, they start contributing in generating cash for the business. For example,if McDonalds 
sets a service response time of 30 seconds and trains its human capital to achieve this target,the customer turnover at the counter will increase and lead to higher 
revenues.
7. Finally, for these assets to come into a state of strategic readiness, they need to be aligned with the organizations strategy. If they are not properly aligned, 
it can lead to chaos. For example, if McDonalds promises its customers a 30 seconds service but does not care to bring its human, information and organizational 
assets up to required standards, there will be widespread dissonance amongst its customer base and the risk of erosion in brand value will be very high.

